#Help text for tool "Stream Reach And Watershed".
URL
https://hydrology.usu.edu/taudem/taudem5/help53/streamreachandwatershed.html
END URL

TEXT
<p>This tool produces a vector network and OGR file from the stream raster grid. The flow direction grid is used to connect flow paths along the stream raster. The Strahler order of each stream segment is computed. The subwatershed draining to each stream segment (reach) is also delineated and labeled with the value identifier that corresponds to the WSNO (watershed number) attribute in the Stream Reach OGR file.</p><p>This tool orders the stream network according to the Strahler ordering system. Streams that don't have any other streams draining in to them are order 1. When two stream reaches of different order join the order of the downstream reach is the order of the highest incoming reach. When two reaches of equal order join the downstream reach order is increased by 1. When more than two reaches join the downstream reach order is calculated as the maximum of the highest incoming reach order or the second highest incoming reach order + 1. This generalizes the common definition to cases where more than two reaches join at a point. The network topological connectivity is stored in the Stream Network Tree file, and coordinates and attributes from each grid cell along the network are stored in the Network Coordinates file.</p><p>The stream raster grid is used as the source for the stream network, and the flow direction grid is used to trace connections within the stream network. Elevations and contributing area are used to determine the elevation and contributing area attributes in the network coordinate file. Points in the outlets file are used to logically split stream reaches to facilitate representing watersheds upstream and downstream of monitoring points. The program uses the attribute field "id" in the outlets file as identifiers in the Network Tree file. This tool then translates the text file vector network representation in the Network Tree and Coordinates files into a polyline OGR file. Further attributes are also evaluated. The program has an option to delineate a single watershed by representing the entire area draining to the Stream Network as a single value in the output watershed grid.</p>
END TEXT
